The MVC architecture overview here.
Continuing with just the course overview, let's look at what we'll learn from the MVC fundamentals
themselves.
When we talk about architecture and software design, there are so many different terms.
Some of these terms you may be familiar with already and may have a firm grasp of which of the ones
that you see here are new to you.
Or maybe you have some idea, but not a full definition.
You will see terms like these used throughout the course, and when I introduce a new term, I will
explain what it is and give it the context.
By the end of this course, you'll have a firmer grasp on the vocabulary.
Imagine a ladder of your own professional growth through your career.
Some of these principles come earlier in your development and would be required in junior and intermediate
job positions.
Understanding classes and object oriented programming are fundamental.
Over time, expert developers work on design patterns, abstracting concepts, making their code more
modular and reusable, as well as learning, testing and architectures.
This course focuses on architecture, and we will also hit on a lot of these different concepts, including
testing the progression through a game.
Developers career can have many different job titles depending on the company country culture that you're
working in.
That growth could be quite different.
But here is a loose example of some of the different jobs that you can progress on through a long career
in game development.
While having experience in architectural concepts is always important in software development and game
development, it is especially crucial in the mid game of moving towards senior development positions.
You can even see on this specific chart there's dedicated software architect positions as well as a
place to bring your expertise.
Ultimately, a software's architecture is the fundamental organization of all of its parts.
It's built on a set of design principles and design patterns, both of which we'll discuss in the course.
Some of the benefits of consciously applying an architecture to your application or game is that it's
based on proven concepts.
It'll be in confidence, performance and scalability to your projects.
Architectures are typically language agnostic, meaning the principles sit higher and more theoretical
and could be applied to various different programming languages and programming platforms like the Unity
Game Engine.
Now, while there is a learning curve, teams that embrace architecture will find development to move
faster and especially maintenance on projects will be much faster as well.
In the course we'll touch on different types of architecture.
There's first the no architecture approach.
This is especially what beginners use in projects or even veterans use in prototypes of projects.
Here, for the sake of speed and flexibility, teams may choose no particular framework and move forward.
Often in these examples you get yourself into trouble where scalability and adding features at the end
becomes very difficult.
Veteran teams may choose custom architectures, taking the different principles and patterns that we'll
talk about in this course and applying them themselves.
There are advantages to that, particularly customization.
There are established architectures, blueprints that we can pull off of the shelf and bring into our
project.
These include MVC, Nvme and MVP.
This course will be focusing on the MVC or model view controller pattern, so why not proceed in our
projects with the no architecture approach doing what feels right in the moment?
Well, while it may be faster initially and a bit freeing and flexible in how you approach it, you'll
find there'll be more debate about how and where to add each features, whether you're a single person
team or on a larger team.
Each developer may approach and solve this differently.
That inconsistency will make your code more difficult to read your project, more difficult to maintain.
And when you on board or off board talent to your project, it can be challenging bringing new people
on.
There's more training to be done and when someone departs your team, there's more information custom
to their particular solutions you need to get before they depart.
To many developers, the no architecture approach may feel like the best solution, but undoubtedly
bugs and complexity will come along.
I'm reminded of this quote and I'll paraphrase it.
Every decision that we make while working on our software projects is an investment, and each investment
comes with a cost.
There is indeed a learning curve here, but we approach that investment, trusting that it will carry
benefits along the way.
That's how I suggest we look at architectures with a cost as well as long term benefits.
Many times us as developers feel like the software development and game development process is all about
adding new features and functionality.
However, that's not necessarily the case.
Research shows that generally only about 20% of our production effort is adding new features and functionality
we spend the gross majority of.
Our time and energy, maintaining those features, updating different tools and frameworks we use,
addressing user feedback, even reducing areas of scope as well as of course addressing bugs.
Creating maintainable code pays dividends, establishing a structure and architecture from the beginning
with a consistent, bespoke way to add our new functionality will help greatly during this 80% of the
software's life.
When we are maintaining fixing bugs and addressing feedback.
Let's just take bugs for an example.
The same bug encountered earlier in development is much, much cheaper to solve.
It requires less developer time and less testing upon it.
It's a best practice to catch these bugs early and often, as well as fixing bugs before we add new
features.
In addition to creating maintainable code to help us accomplish these goals, we can also increase the
amount of automation and testing.
Along with the project.
We'll see how architectures enable us to do testing more easily.
Increased automation and testing brings confidence, robustness and stability to our projects as well.
So how exactly does a framework like the model view controller architecture help us with testing?
Well, at its core, using a framework like MVC will invite us to separate the different areas of concern
from our projects, having these aspects be separate, decoupled in how they communicate, and also
inviting smaller responsibilities within each class.
All of those qualities make for more testable code within testing, especially when we employ something
called test driven development, which we'll cover in the course.
The testing itself will fold into how we make our solutions work.
We'll see that thinking about testing upfront helps us create projects with more simple solutions.
We can certainly create an NVQ project without adding testing.
And for those of you who've done testing, you know that MVC architecture is not required.
So why do we talk about them coming together?
Because combining these two concepts is incredibly powerful together.
In this course, we'll see how using an established architecture like MVC will bring many benefits to
our Unity project development.
Overall, I'm incredibly excited to get these concepts and practices in the hands of more devs.
The Unity development audience spans an incredible amount of different types of developers.
We have hobbyists creating projects for fun and professional developers of all different skill levels
using unity.
Unity is very flexible and that's one of the very cool benefits about using it.
However, at times that flexibility can allow us to create bad solutions.
Applying the best practices that we'll cover here will really help you think new ways about approaching
your projects.
I'm confident that the topics we talk about here will help every one of you in your project development.
In summary, this course will focus on the MVC architecture for Unity.
We covered the course contents.
We've seen a little bit about how architecture can help us create better projects, and I've also hinted
that the powerful combination of testing and architecture coming together can produce exciting results.
In this next section, we'll discuss more about Unity as a platform.
We'll do a quick recap about why you would choose Unity, what are the different features and services,
and an overview briefly of its major parts.
Thanks.